# BlueHealth Terraform Exercise

> Welcome to the programming exercise for Software Reliability Engineers! :)

## General questions

Below are several questions related to different areas of interest. Please try to answer all of them. Your answers need not be very comprehensive, but should show good understanding of these concepts.

1. Observability of applications and workloads is crucial to maintain good quality services. Please outline the pillars of observability, and how they are applied in real projects.
2. Collecting and visualizing data generated by a business may provide interesting insights. Please describe how businesses can extract data from their systems and load it into BI tools for further analysis. How is this implemented, and what challenges it involves?
3. Let's imagine you are maintaining a large Kubernetes cluster with multitude of pods, in different zones. You would like to improve the observability of your applications, and reduce the amount of network problems (disconnects, timeouts etc.). What steps would you take, what technologies would you use?
4. Please describe the GitOps approach to infrastructure management.
5. Please describe the incident management process and what tools/practices are used to implement it.
 
## Docker exercise

The `microservice` directory contains a `Dockerfile` and the source code + dependencies of a small Golang application.

The application, when compiled, served a static JSON file under `http://localhost:8080/static.json`.

Your task is to finish the `Dockerfile`, run it, and verify the file under `http://localhost:8080/static.json` is accessible.

## Terraform exercise

The `networks` directory contains the following Terraform project:

```
networks
├── envs
│   └── development
└── modules
    └── vpc
```

The project configures a VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) network for some larger infrastructure. It defines a Terraform module `vpc` where most of the shared VPC network configuration code lives, and the `development` environment where an instance of this network is created for the development environment.

Your task is to read the code carefully, and then:
1. Explain which infrastructure components are provisioned by this code, and what is their function. You can annotate Terraform modules/resources/data if you wish to.
2. Give an overview of the firewall configuration - what connections are allowed, when etc.
3. Finish the example configuration of `locals{}` in `networks/envs/development/main.tf`. You can also adjust variables in `networks/envs/development/terraform.tfvars` if you would like to.
4. Explain precisely which infrastructure components will be provisioned after your changes.
5. (Optional) Implement a Cloud NAT Gateway in the VPC network. The NAT gateway should expose one public IP address that will be used for communication with the Internet. Please take a look at the [terraform-google-modules/cloud-router/google](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-google-modules/cloud-router/google/latest) module for hints.

The answers don't need to be very elaborate, they should show your understanding of the infrastructure components, and how to provision them with Terraform.
